# ASK MR. PROTOCOL (#1)

## November 1, 1984

I am sure that there are many among us who remember the early days of
networking, when the general feeling was that anything which could be
shipped over a piece of copper wire was fair game. I am equally sure
that there are many among us who know of networks where such is still
the case. Our own networking world, however, has reached a level of
civilization sufficient to admit of a certain amount of politesse.

Correct social behavior at the network level is in many ways more
important than in the so* called “real” world. In everyday life, a
sufficiently gross social blunder will sometimes mean that people will
not speak to you. In the networking world, a gross protocol blunder
invariably means that people will not speak to you.

Mr. Protocol is an arbiter of excruciatingly correct network
behavior. It is his belief that in a more perfect world, correct
adherence to all the nuances of network protocol will smooth away the
vicissitudes of network life. He invites your questions and comments
and will attempt to deal fairly with all comers (as is his wont).

•	•	•	•

Q: Who writes these protocols, anyway?

A: Certainly not Mr. Protocol. He has spent a lifetime assiduously
absorbing all the details of the network protocols, and is far too
busy to write any himself. Protocol* are written by true wizards who
spend their lifetimes figuring out how these things actually
work. RFC’s (Requests for Comments) are the typical means for
promulgating protocol standards. Mr. Protocol thinks that issuing
rules as “Requests for Comments” is the soul of gentility. Copies of
any RFC which one might want to read, together with an index of all
RFC’s, are available from the CIC (of course).

•	•	•	•

Q: What’s the biggest thing I can mail?

A: How long can you talk? Mr. Protocol believes that PhoneNet is
designed to allow people to exchange mail, and is distressed by the
various attempts to use it to itemize the national debt. While he
recognizes the need to send chip descriptions to giant fabrication
systems, he regards the use of a 1200 baud connection to do so with
some degree of distress. Sending a multi-megabyte chip description
file through the Relay at 1200 baud is about as polite as using the
public address system on a crowded Greyhound bus to discuss the
internal politics of Acapulco’s city government for five solid hours •
which is about how long it takes to transmit such a file. Mr. Protocol
also recognizes with some dismay that the gentle folk at the CIC have
not always made it perfectly clear that this is the case. He therefore
wishes it to be made known that any file larger than about 100,000
bytes should be regarded as “large.” A one-megabyte data file is
regarded in some circles as “moby,” but Mr. Protocol never uses such
language.

It is distressing to note that there appear to be gremlins in the
telephone system which search gleefully for such lengthy telephone
exchanges and break them - but only after they have been underway for
some hours. Mr. Protocol ventures to suggest that in a more perfect
world, there must be a better way. There are a large number of
unemployed Olympic torch runners at the moment. Hiring one of these
and handing him or her a magnetic tape would be faster and more
certain than the current scheme.

If for some reason this proves unsatisfactory, or if there is reason
to believe that the transfer will actually work, or if there is some
degree of urgency (!), Mr. Protocol suggests a conversation with the
CIC to reach the best solution possible in the given situation. On the
grounds that an invasion of thousands of mice is preferable to an
invasion by an elephant, it might be suggested that a single very
large message be broken down into several smaller messages and
reassembled at the destination.
