# APPENDIX I: Mr Protocol Soaks His Head

## May 26, 1987

Mr. Protocol, having recently become a certified scuba diver (and
there are those among us who believe he’s been certifiable for years),
recently signed aboard the Good Ship Cee Ray for a diving trip to
Santa Catalina Island. Perforce, his amanuensis (my own long-suffering
self) went along. Mr. Protocol’s natural sunny good cheer got him off
to a good start for a 7AM boat departure; I very nearly underwent
adrenocortical burnout when the alarm went off at 4:30.

The trip to San Pedro was uneventful, and directions to the boat
landing were, for a wonder, adequate. Naturally, I did the
driving. Mr. Protocol does not drive as Los Angeles driving protocol
is incompletely specified. For similar reasons, Mr. Protocol refuses
even to go out on the street in New York City.

After noting that the parking lot was full, I parked the car by the
curb right near the sign saying “NO STOPPING ANY TIME” (ignoring
Mr. P’s anguished cries), together with the other twenty people who
were unloading tanks, buoyancy compensators, gear bags, etc. onto the
sidewalk. This, I suppose, comes of going to a boat landing on Sunday
of Memorial Day weekend, when all the boat owners have been out and
away since Saturday. After carting the gear to the boat, I moved the
car to a lot down the street Carting the gear took several
trips. While Mr. Protocol is in substantial equipoise at any depth,
Mikey wears a 43 (forty-three) pound weight belt, which makes
gear-lugging a substantial proposition. We signed in and hung out
after claiming bunk space. Except for Mr. Protocol, of course. He
never sleeps.

The boat left the dock right around 7AM. It left the breakwater around
7:25, and then things got interesting. There is a saying, “If you can
see Catalina from the mainland, don’t go. It’s too rough." Well, we
couldn’t see Catalina, but it was still pretty rough. Mr. Protocol, of
course, spent most of the 2-hour trip standing in the bow of the boat,
rolling with the swells and whistling “Blow the Man Down.” I spent the
trip in the stem of the boat, eyes fixed on the horizon line and
hoping that the Dramamine would kick in before the adrenochrome wore
off. It was a hazy trip.

We anchored in Starlight Cove, at the rear (landward) side of the
island, which was the lee side that day. The cove blocked the
swells. Unfortunately the only dive partner I could find for the first
dive was a student in a class, so I spent the first dive watching
people do pathological things to their equipment at forty feet. I
refused to consider Mr. Protocol as a dive buddy for several
reasons. 1) Mr. Protocol is uncomfortable with a term as familiar as
“buddy.” 2) It is very difficult to actually get any sightseeing done
when diving with Mr. Protocol, as all he ever does is go through
safety protocol. After awhile you get tired of continually clearing
your mask and changing to your second regulator, etc. And I flat-out
refuse to practice an emergency buoyant ascent It’s sort of like
hyperspace: sometimes you don’t come out 3) Many people are
uncomfortable letting me dive with a buddy that no one else can see.

By this time I was thinking that this trip was a bust Mr. Protocol,
ever the indefatigable optomist, counselled waiting for the second
dive location. Lo and behold, for that dive an honest-to-goodness
certified-but-novice diver, just like myself, was looking for a
partner. The second location, Stony Point, was a cove like the first,
but with more kelp. Now, a genuine kelp forest is a riot of life. We
saw garibaldi. Hard to miss them. They’re bright orange fish about 6”
long and highly territorial They come right up to your mask and say
“Who dat?” They refuse to leave you alone. You swim around in a
veritable cloud of garibaldi. No, they don’t bite. We saw starfish. We
saw urchins. We saw garibaldi eating an abalone. We saw sea fans and
sponges and cucumbers. Hard to miss the cucumbers. The whole bottom
looks like someone emptied a vat of dill pickles. You pick them up and
they turn into dill footballs. All the while we were swimming through
a forest of giant kelp, which resemble nothing so much as the giant
redwoods of Sequoia, in effect if not in actual appearance.

After returning to the boat, Mr. Protocol and his amanuensis got into
a shocking argument about the feasibility of doing a second dive
solo. The argument was interrupted by a commotion at

the stem. A diver who'd gone down solo had had weight belt trouble,
followed by mask flooding, followed by panic, followed by a failed
attempt to breathe sea water. They were (bragging her onto the exit
platform, a steel grating just below the surface that divers can exit
onto, in order to stand up and remove their fins before climbing the
ladder onto the boat. She was fine but not happy. That was it for
diving that day. Mr. Protocol was unbearably smug, in that
solemn-faced way that so endears him to us all.

Another dose of Dram amine and. I spent the return journey in my
bunk. Mr. Protocol was up in the galley reading dive magazines to find
ever more exciting places to go practice safety drills.

We returned to the slip around 5PM. After debating the best way to get
the gear back to the car, the nearby lot still being full, I declared
for the macho solution and wore my weight belt, tank and buoyancy
compensator, while carrying my dive bag containing wetsuit, mask,
fins, gloves, hood, etc. back to the car. It compared favorably with
taking a walk on the surface of Jupiter, but not by much. I drove home
alone. I had thrown Mr. Protocol off the boat in the deepest part of
the passage. He’s used to that by now.

Mike O’Brien May 26, 1987
